<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXVII: Mr. Parr’s Mother</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-27" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr’s Mother</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Jack Beardmore had heard of Brabazon’s arrest, and went straight to police headquarters to see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr.</p>
			<p>He found that excellent gentleman had gone home.</p>
			<p>“If it is important, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Beardmore,” said the police clerk on duty, “you will find him at home in his house at Stamford Avenue.”</p>
			<p>Beyond his natural interest in the Crimson Circle and all that pertained thereto, Jack had no particular wish to see the inspector, and Derrick Yale had telephoned all that was known or could be told.</p>
			<p>“Parr thinks this arrest may have an important development,” he said. “No, I haven’t seen Brabazon, but I accompany Parr tomorrow morning when he visits him.”</p>
			<p>Yale, too, was apparently un-get-at-able; he had hinted that he had a theatre party that night, and Jack bent his steps homeward. He had sent his car away, for he felt he needed exercise to dissipate his energies, and as he crossed the gloomy park, taking a shortcut to his house, he found himself wondering what sort of a home life a man like Parr could have. He had never spoken about his family, and his mode of living outside of the police headquarters was almost as much of a mystery as that which he was trying to unravel.</p>
			<p>Where was Stamford Avenue, he wondered. He had reached a deserted spot of the park, when he thought he heard footsteps behind him, and turned his head. He was not a nervous type, and ordinarily the sound of somebody walking in his rear would not have interested him sufficiently to make him turn. The path here skirted a dense thicket of rhododendrons. There was nobody in sight. Jack went on, quickening his pace.</p>
			<p>He heard no more footsteps, but looking round he thought he saw a man walking on the grass by the side of the path. As Jack stopped he too halted. He was doubtful as to what he should do. To challenge the man might put him into an absurd position; there was no reason in the world why any good citizen should not walk in the park at night, or, for the matter of that, why they should not walk behind him anywhere at a respectable distance.</p>
			<p>And then ahead of him he made out a slowly strolling figure, and heard the unmistakable “beat walk” of a policeman.</p>
			<p>To his own amazement he felt relieved, and when he looked round, the figure that had followed him had disappeared. He tried to reconstruct his impression; whoever his tracker had been, he was smally made. At first Jack had thought it was a boy; perhaps some poor park beggar who was mustering up courage to approach him for the price of a night’s bed. It seemed absurd that he was glad to be out of the park, and to step into the well-lighted street, but it was the case.</p>
			<p>He made an inquiry of a policeman.</p>
			<p>“Stamford Avenue, sir? That bus you see over there will take you, or you can get there in a taxi in ten minutes.”</p>
			<p>Jack stood for a long time before he called the taxicab. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr would rightly resent this intrusion into his domestic privacy, and really he had no excuse to offer. But making up his mind of a sudden, he called a cab, and in a very short time was experiencing exactly the same doubts and misgivings before the door of Inspector Parr’s maisonette.</p>
			<p>It was Parr himself who opened the door.</p>
			<p>His face was naturally free from expression, and he neither showed surprise nor annoyance at the arrival of his late visitor.</p>
			<p>“Come in, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Beardmore,” he said. “I have just arrived, and am having supper. I suppose you’ve had your evening meal a long time ago.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t let me interrupt you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr, only I was rather interested to hear that you had caught Brabazon, and I thought I’d come along.”</p>
			<p>The inspector was showing him into the dining-room, when suddenly he stopped.</p>
			<p>“Good Lord!” he said.</p>
			<p>Jack could only wonder what had startled him.</p>
			<p>“Do you mind waiting here?”</p>
			<p>For the first time since Jack had known the police officer, Parr was embarrassed.</p>
			<p>“I must first tell an old aunt of mine who is staying here who you are,” he said. “She’s not used to visitors. I’m a widower, you know, and my aunt keeps house for me.”</p>
			<p>He entered the dining-room hurriedly, closing the door behind him, and Jack felt something of his host’s embarrassment.</p>
			<p>A minute, two minutes passed. He heard a hurried movement in the room, and Parr opened the door.</p>
			<p>“Come in, sir.” His red face was even a deeper red. “Sit you down, and please forgive me for keeping you waiting.”</p>
			<p>The room in which he found himself was well and tastefully furnished. Jack was annoyed with himself for expecting anything else.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr’s aunt was a faded lady with an absent manner, and she seemed to cause <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr a considerable amount of anxiety. He scarcely took his eyes from her as she moved about the room, and she hardly spoke before he jumped in to interrupt her, always politely, but always very definitely.</p>
			<p>The inspector’s supper was set upon a tray; he had just about finished when Jack had knocked at the door.</p>
			<p>“I hope you’ll excuse our untidiness, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>⁠—er⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Beardmore,” said Jack.</p>
			<p>“She’ll never remember it,” murmured the inspector.</p>
			<p>“I can’t keep the place as mother kept it,” she said.</p>
			<p>“Of course not, of course not, auntie,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr hurriedly. “A little absent,” he murmured. “Now what did you want to know, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Beardmore?”</p>
			<p>Jack laughingly excused himself for his call.</p>
			<p>“The Crimson Circle is such a complicated business that I suspect every new agent to be the central figure,” he said. “Do you think that the arrest of Brabazon is going to help us?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know,” replied Parr slowly. “There is just a chance that Brabazon will be a very big help indeed. By the way, I’ve put one of my own men to look after him, and I have given instructions that the jailer is not to go into the cell under any circumstances.”</p>
			<p>“You’re thinking of Sibly, the sailor, who was poisoned?”</p>
			<p>Parr nodded.</p>
			<p>“Don’t you think, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Beardmore, that that was one of the greatest mysteries of all the mysterious Crimson Circle murders?”</p>
			<p>He asked this question very soberly, but there was a little glint in his eye which Jack did not fail to notice.</p>
			<p>“You’re laughing. Why? I think it was mysterious, don’t you?”</p>
			<p>“Very,” said the inspector. “In some respects, and the poisoning of Sibly will, to my mind, be a much more important factor in the eventual capture of the Crimson Circle than is the arrest of our friend Brabazon.”</p>
			<p>“I wish you wouldn’t talk about crime and criminals,” said his aunt fretfully; “really, John, you are very trying. It may have suited mother⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Yes, of course, auntie; I’m sorry,” said Parr hurriedly, and when she had left the room, Jack Beardmore’s curiosity got the better of his discretion.</p>
			<p>“Mother seems to have been rather a paragon,” he smiled, and wondered if he had made a faux pas.</p>
			<p>The answering laugh reassured him.</p>
			<p>“Yes, rather a paragon; she is not staying with us just now.”</p>
			<p>“Is she your mother, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr?”</p>
			<p>“No, my grandmother,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr, and Jack looked at him in astonishment.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
