<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXI: Thalia Answers a Few Questions</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-31" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXI</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Thalia Answers a Few Questions</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Derrick Yale sat with his head on his hands, reading a newspaper. He had read a dozen that morning, and one by one he had cast them aside to open another.</p>
			<p>“Under the eyes of the police,” he quoted. “Incompetence at Police Headquarters.” He shook his head. “They are giving our poor friend Parr a bad time in this morning’s press,” he said as he threw the paper aside, “and yet he was as incapable of preventing that crime as you or I, Miss Drummond.”</p>
			<p>Thalia Drummond looked a little peaked that morning. There were dark circles about her eyes, and an air of general listlessness which was in contrast to her usual cheerful buoyancy.</p>
			<p>“If you’re in that game you expect to get kicks, don’t you?” she asked coolly. “The police can’t have it all their own way.”</p>
			<p>He looked at her curiously.</p>
			<p>“You aren’t a particular admirer of police methods, are you, Miss Drummond?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“Not tremendously,” she replied, as she laid a stack of correspondence before him. “You aren’t expecting me to get up testimonials to the efficiency of headquarters, are you?”</p>
			<p>He laughed quietly.</p>
			<p>“You’re a strange girl,” he said. “Sometimes I think that you were born without compassion. And you worked for Froyant, too, didn’t you?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” she said shortly.</p>
			<p>“You lived some time in the house?”</p>
			<p>She did not reply, but her grey eyes met his steadily.</p>
			<p>“I did live some time in the house,” she admitted. “Why do you ask that?”</p>
			<p>“I wondered if you knew of the existence of this underground room?” said Derrick Yale carelessly.</p>
			<p>“Of course I knew of the room. Poor <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Froyant made no secret of his cleverness. He has told me a dozen times how much it cost,” she added with a faint smile.</p>
			<p>He cogitated a moment.</p>
			<p>“Where were the keys usually kept that opened the door of the bombproof room?”</p>
			<p>“In <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Froyant’s desk. Are you suggesting that I have had access to them, or that I was concerned in last night’s murder?”</p>
			<p>He laughed.</p>
			<p>“I am not suggesting anything,” he said. “I am merely inquiring, and as you seem to know a great deal more about the house than most of the people who live in it, my curiosity is natural. Would it be possible, do you think, to push up that trap without making a noise?”</p>
			<p>“Quite,” she said. “The trapdoor works on counterbalances. Are you going to answer any of those letters?”</p>
			<p>He pushed the pile of letters aside.</p>
			<p>“What were you doing last night, Miss Drummond?”</p>
			<p>This time his method was more direct.</p>
			<p>“I spent my evening at home,” she said. Her hands went behind her, and that curious rigidity which he had noticed before stiffened her frame.</p>
			<p>“Did you spend the whole of the evening at home?”</p>
			<p>She did not answer.</p>
			<p>“Isn’t it a fact that about half-past eight you went out, carrying a small parcel?”</p>
			<p>Again she made no reply.</p>
			<p>“One of my men accidentally saw you,” said Derrick Yale carelessly, “and then lost sight of you. Where did you spend the evening⁠—you did not return to your flat until nearly eleven o’clock at night.”</p>
			<p>“I went for a walk,” said Thalia Drummond coolly. “If you will give me a map of London, I will endeavour to retrace my footsteps.”</p>
			<p>“Suppose some of them have already been traced?”</p>
			<p>Her eyes narrowed.</p>
			<p>“In that case,” she said quietly, “I am saved the bother of telling you where I went.”</p>
			<p>“Now look here, Miss Drummond,” he leant across the table. “I am perfectly sure that you are not, in your heart of hearts, a murderess. That word makes you wince, and it is an ugly one. But there are suspicious circumstances which I have not yet revealed to Parr about your movements last night.”</p>
			<p>“Being under suspicion is a normal condition with me,” she said, “and since you know so much, it is quite unnecessary for me to tell you more.”</p>
			<p>He looked at her, but she returned his gaze without faltering, and then with a shrug of his shoulders, he said:</p>
			<p>“Really, I don’t think it matters where you were.”</p>
			<p>“I’m almost inclined to agree with you,” she mocked him, and went back to her office and her typewriter.</p>
			<p>“An amazing personality,” thought Derrick Yale.</p>
			<p>Women did not ordinarily interest him, but Thalia Drummond was beyond and outside of the general run. Her beauty had no appeal for him; he knew she was pretty, just as he knew his office door was painted brown and that the colour of a penny stamp was red.</p>
			<p>He took up the paper again and reread some of the comments upon the inefficiency of police headquarters, and soon after, as he had expected, Parr came into the room with a certain briskness and dropped into a chair.</p>
			<p>“The Commissioner has asked for my resignation,” he said, and to the other’s surprise, his voice was almost cheerful. “I’m not worrying. I intended to retire three years ago when my brother left me his money.”</p>
			<p>This was the first intimation Derrick Yale had received that Inspector Parr was a comparatively rich man.</p>
			<p>“What are you going to do?” he asked, and Parr smiled.</p>
			<p>“In Government offices when you are asked to resign, you resign,” he said drily. “But my resignation will not take effect until the end of next month. I must wait and see what happens to you, my friend.”</p>
			<p>“To me?” said Derrick in surprise. “Oh, you mean the warning that I am to be polished off on the fourth? Let me see, there are only two or three days of life left for me,” he laughed ironically as he glanced at the calendar. “I don’t think you need wait for that. But, joking apart, why resign at all? Do you think if I saw the Commissioner⁠—”</p>
			<p>“He’d take much less notice of you than he would of a row of beans if they started articulating,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr. “As a matter of fact, he isn’t taking me off the case until my resignation comes into effect, and I have you to thank for that.”</p>
			<p>“Me?”</p>
			<p>The stout inspector was laughing silently.</p>
			<p>“I told him that your life was so precious to the country that it was necessary I should remain on duty until I had got you over the fatal date,” he said.</p>
			<p>Thalia Drummond came in at that moment with another batch of correspondence.</p>
			<p>“Good morning, Miss Drummond.”</p>
			<p>The inspector raised his eyes to the girl.</p>
			<p>“I’ve been reading about you this morning,” said Thalia coolly. “You’re becoming quite a public character, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr.”</p>
			<p>“Anything for the sake of a little advertisement,” murmured the inspector without resentment. “It is a long time since I saw your name in the paper, Miss Drummond.”</p>
			<p>His reference to her appearance in a police court seemed to afford Thalia a great deal of amusement.</p>
			<p>“I shall have my share in time,” she said. “What is the latest news about the Crimson Circle?”</p>
			<p>“The latest news,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr slowly, “is that all correspondence addressed to the Crimson Circle of Mildred Street must in future be sent elsewhere.”</p>
			<p>He saw her face change; it was only a momentary flash, but the effect was very gratifying to Inspector Parr.</p>
			<p>“Are they opening offices in the city?” she asked, recovering herself rapidly. “I don’t see why they shouldn’t. They seem to do almost as much as they like, and I don’t see why they should not live in a very handsome block with elevators and electric signs⁠—no, I don’t think they’d better have electric signs, because even the police would see them!”</p>
			<p>“Sarcasm in a young woman,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr severely, “is not only unbecoming, it is indecent!”</p>
			<p>Yale was listening to this exchange with a delighted smile. If the girl surprised him, there were moments when Inspector Parr surprised him as much. This heavy man had a very light malicious touch when he wished.</p>
			<p>“And where were you last night, Miss Drummond?” asked Parr, his eyes on the ground.</p>
			<p>“In bed and dreaming,” said Thalia Drummond.</p>
			<p>“Then you must have been walking in your sleep when you were loafing about at the back of Froyant’s house about half-past nine,” suggested the inspector.</p>
			<p>“So that is it, eh?” said Thalia. “You found my dainty footsteps in the garden? <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Yale has hinted as much already. No, inspector, I went for a walk in the park at night. The solitude is very inspiring.”</p>
			<p>Still Parr regarded the carpet attentively.</p>
			<p>“Well, when you walk in the park, young lady, keep at some distance from Jack Beardmore, because the last time you trailed him, you scared him!”</p>
			<p>He had hit truly this time. Her face flushed crimson and her delicate eyebrows met in a frown.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Beardmore isn’t easily scared,” she said, “and besides⁠—besides⁠—”</p>
			<p>Suddenly she turned and went from the room, and when Parr, after a little further conversation, also went into the outer office, she looked up at him and scowled.</p>
			<p>“There are times, inspector, when I positively hate you!” she said vehemently.</p>
			<p>“You surprise me,” said Inspector Parr.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
