<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IV: Mr. Felix Marl</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h2>
				<p epub:type="title"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Felix Marl</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Jack Beardmore looked round, scanning the country. The only human being in sight was a man who was walking slowly away from them, carrying a bag in his hand. Jack shouted, and the man turned.</p>
			<p>“Who are you?” demanded Jack. Then, “What are you doing here?”</p>
			<p>The stranger was a tall, stoutish man, and the exertion of carrying his grip had left him a little breathless. It was some time before he could reply.</p>
			<p>“My name is Marl,” he said, “Felix Marl. You may have heard of me. I think you are young <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Beardmore, aren’t you?”</p>
			<p>“That is my name,” said Jack. “What are you doing here?” he asked again.</p>
			<p>“They told me there was a shortcut from the railway station, but it is not so short as they promised,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Marl, breathing stertorously. “I’m on my way to see your father.”</p>
			<p>“Have you been near that tree?” asked Jack, and Marl glared at him.</p>
			<p>“Why should I go near any tree?” he demanded aggressively. “I tell you I’ve come straight across the fields.”</p>
			<p>By this time Harvey Froyant arrived, and apparently recognised the newcomer.</p>
			<p>“This is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Marl; I know him. Marl, did you see anybody near that tree?”</p>
			<p>The man shook his head. Apparently the tree and its secret was a mystery to him.</p>
			<p>“I never knew there was a tree there,” he said. “What⁠—what has happened?”</p>
			<p>“Nothing,” said Harvey Froyant sharply.</p>
			<p>They came to the house soon after, Jack carrying the visitor’s bag. He was not impressed by the big man’s appearance. His voice was coarse, his manner familiar, and Jack wondered what association this uncouth specimen of humanity could have with his father.</p>
			<p>They were nearing the house when suddenly and for no obvious reason the stout <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Marl emitted a frightened squeal and leapt back. There was no doubt of his fear. It was written visibly in the blanched cheeks and the quivering lips of the man, who was shaking from head to foot.</p>
			<p>Jack could only look at him in astonishment⁠—and even Harvey Froyant was startled into an interest.</p>
			<p>“What the hell is wrong with you, Marl?” he asked savagely.</p>
			<p>His own nerves were on edge, and the sight of the big man’s undisguised terror was a further strain which he could scarcely endure.</p>
			<p>“Nothin’⁠—nothin’,” muttered Marl huskily. “I’ve been⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Drinking, I should think,” snapped Froyant.</p>
			<p>After seeing the man into the house Jack hurried off in search of Derrick Yale. He discovered the detective in the shrubbery sitting in a big cane chair, his chin upon his breast, his arms folded, a characteristic attitude of his.</p>
			<p>Yale looked up at the sound of the young man’s footsteps.</p>
			<p>“I can’t tell you,” he said, before Jack had framed his question, and then, seeing the look of astonishment on his face, he laughed. “You were going to ask me what scared Marl, weren’t you?”</p>
			<p>“I came with that intention,” laughed Jack. “What an extraordinary fellow you are, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Yale! Did you see his extraordinary exhibition of funk?”</p>
			<p>Derrick Yale nodded.</p>
			<p>“I saw him just before he had his shock,” he said. “You can see the field path from here.”</p>
			<p>He frowned.</p>
			<p>“He reminds me of somebody,” he said slowly, “yet I cannot for the life of me tell who it is. Is he a frequent visitor here? Your father told me he was coming, and I guessed it was he.”</p>
			<p>Jack shook his head.</p>
			<p>“This is the first time I’ve seen him,” he said. “I remember now, though, that father and Froyant have had some business dealings with a man named Marl⁠—dad mentioned him one day. I think he is a land speculator. Father is rather interested in land just now. By the way, I have seen the mark of the Crimson Circle,” he added, and described the newly-painted “O” he had found on the elm.</p>
			<p>Instantly Yale lost interest in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Marl.</p>
			<p>“It was not on the tree when I went down into the valley,” said Jack. “I’ll swear to that. It must have been painted whilst I was talking to⁠—to a friend. The trunk is out of sight from the boundary fence, and it was quite possible for somebody to have painted the sign without being seen. What does it mean, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Yale?”</p>
			<p>“It means trouble,” said Yale shortly.</p>
			<p>He rose abruptly and began pacing the flagged walk, and Jack, after waiting a little while, left him to his meditations.</p>
			<p>In the meantime, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Felix Marl was comparatively a useless third of a conference which dealt with the transfer of lands. Marl was, as Jack had said, a land speculator, and he had come that morning bringing a promising proposition which he was wholly incapable of explaining.</p>
			<p>“I can’t help it, gentlemen,” he said, and for the fourth time his trembling hand rose to his lips. “I’ve had a bit of a shock this morning.”</p>
			<p>“What was that?”</p>
			<p>But Marl seemed incapable of explanation. He could only shake his head helplessly.</p>
			<p>“I’m not fit to discuss things calmly,” he said. “You’ll have to put the matter off until tomorrow.”</p>
			<p>“Do you think I’ve come here today for the purpose of listening to that sort of nonsense?” snarled <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Froyant. “I tell you I want this business settled. So do you, Beardmore.”</p>
			<p>Jim Beardmore, who was indifferent as to whether the matter was settled then or the following week, laughed.</p>
			<p>“I don’t know that it is very important,” he said. “If <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Marl is upset, why should we bother him? Perhaps you’ll stay here tonight, Marl?”</p>
			<p>“No, no, no,” the man’s voice rose almost to a shout. “No, I won’t stay here, if you don’t mind⁠—I would much rather not!”</p>
			<p>“Just as you like,” said Jim Beardmore indifferently, and folded up the papers he had prepared for signature.</p>
			<p>They walked out into the hall together, and there Jack found them.</p>
			<p>Beardmore’s car carried the visitor and his bag back to the station, and from there on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Marl’s conduct was peculiar. He registered his bag through to the city, but he himself descended at the next station, and for a man who so disliked walking, and was by nature so averse from physical exercise, he displayed an almost heroic spirit, for he set forth to walk the nine miles which separated him from the Beardmore estate⁠—and he did not go by the shortest route.</p>
			<p>It was nearing nightfall when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Marl made his furtive way into a thick plantation on the edge of the Beardmore property.</p>
			<p>He sat down, a tired, dusty but determined man, and waited for the night to close down over the countryside. And during the period of waiting, he examined with tender care the heavy automatic pistol he had taken from his bag in the train.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
