<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-33" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Posters</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Jack did not find him a pleasant travelling companion; the inspector had brought with him a whole bundle of newspapers, in each of which he read religiously the comments upon the Crimson Circle. His host saw what he was reading, and was astonished that the man, phlegmatic as he was, could find any pleasure in the uncomplimentary references to himself which filled the journals. He said as much.</p>
			<p>The inspector put down a paper on his knees, and took off his steel-rimmed pince-nez.</p>
			<p>“I don’t know,” he said. “Criticism never did anybody any harm; it is only when a man knows he is wrong that this kind of stuff irritates him. As I happen to know I am right, it doesn’t matter to me what they say.”</p>
			<p>“You really think you are right? In what respect?” asked Jack curiously, but here Parr was not offering any information.</p>
			<p>They arrived at the little station and drove the three miles which separated the line from the big gaunt house which had been James Beardmore’s delight.</p>
			<p>Jack’s butler, who had come down to superintend arrangements for his master’s comfort, handed a telegram to Inspector Parr almost as soon as he put his foot across the threshold.</p>
			<p>Parr looked at the face of the envelope and then at the back.</p>
			<p>“How long has this been here?”</p>
			<p>“It arrived about five minutes ago; a cyclist messenger brought it up from the village,” he said.</p>
			<p>The inspector tore open the envelope and extracted the form. It was signed “<span epub:type="z3998:sender">Derrick Yale</span>,” and read:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Come back to London at once; most important development.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Without a word he handed the message to the young man.</p>
			<p>“Of course you’ll go. It’s rather a nuisance; there isn’t a train until nine o’clock,” said Jack, who was disappointed at the prospect of losing his companion.</p>
			<p>“I’m not going,” said Parr calmly. “Nothing in the wide world would make me take another train journey tonight. It must wait.”</p>
			<p>This attitude toward the summons did not somehow go with Jack’s perception of the inspector’s character. He was, if the truth be told, secretly disappointed, although he was glad enough that Parr would share his first night in the house, every corner, every room of which, seemed to have its own especial ghost.</p>
			<p>Parr looked at the telegram again.</p>
			<p>“He must have sent this within half-an-hour of our leaving the station,” he said. “You have a telephone, haven’t you?”</p>
			<p>Jack nodded, and Parr put through a long distance call. It was a quarter of an hour before the tinkle of the bell announced that he had been connected.</p>
			<p>Jack heard his voice in the hall, and presently the detective came in.</p>
			<p>“As I thought,” he said, “the wire was a fake. I’ve just been on to friend Yale.”</p>
			<p>“And did you guess it was a fake?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr nodded.</p>
			<p>“I’m getting almost as good a guesser as Yale,” said the detective good-humouredly.</p>
			<p>He spent the evening initiating the young man into the mysteries of picquet, of which Parr was a past-master. There is probably no more fascinating card game for two in the world than this, and so pleasantly was the evening passed, that it was with a shock that Jack looked at the clock and found it was midnight.</p>
			<p>The room to which the inspector was shown was that which had been occupied by James Beardmore in his lifetime. It was a roomy apartment, lofty and expansive. There were three long windows, and at night the room, as the rest of the house, was lighted by means of an acetylene-gas plant which James Beardmore had installed.</p>
			<p>“Where are you sleeping, by the way?” he said as he paused at the entrance of his room, after saying good night.</p>
			<p>“I’m in the next room,” said Jack, and Parr nodded, closed the door, locking it behind him.</p>
			<p>He heard Jack’s door shut, and proceeded to divest himself of part of his clothing. He made no attempt to undress, but taking from his battered suitcase an old silk dressing-gown, he wrapped it about him, turned out the light and, walking to the windows, pulled up the three blinds.</p>
			<p>The night was fairly light; there was sufficient to enable him to find his way back to the bed, on which he lay, pulling the eiderdown over him. There is a method by which the worst cases of insomnia-haunted patients may obtain sleep, though it is one which I believe is very little known. It is to attempt deliberately to keep one’s eyes open in the dark.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr succeeded only by turning on his side and staring out of the nearest window, which he had opened a little.</p>
			<p>Towards morning he rose suddenly and stepped noiselessly towards the nearest window; he had heard a faint whirr of sound, a noise which a smoothly-running motorcar makes, but now there was a profound silence. He went to the washstand, and rubbed his face with cold water, drying it leisurely. Then he walked back to the window, pulled up a chair and sat so that he commanded whatever view there was of the avenue leading to the front of the house.</p>
			<p>He had to wait nearly half an hour before he saw a dark figure steal from the shadow of the trees, only to disappear again in a deeper shadow. He momentarily glimpsed it again as it passed out of his range of vision into the shadow of the house itself.</p>
			<p>The inspector moved softly from the room and, crossing the landing, went down the stairs. The main door of the house was bolted and locked, and it was some time before he could open it. When he stepped out into the night there was nobody in sight. He crept stealthily along the path which ran parallel with the house, but found no intruder, and he had reached the main entrance again when he heard the sound of the motor fading gradually⁠—the midnight visitor had gone.</p>
			<p>He closed and bolted the door and went back to his room. This visit puzzled him. It was clear that the man, whoever he was, had not seen Parr, nor could he have been certain that he was under observation. He must have come and gone almost immediately.</p>
			<p>It was not until he came down to breakfast in the morning that the mystery of the visitation was revealed.</p>
			<p>Jack was standing before the fire reading a crumpled paper which looked as if it had been posted up and torn. It was the size of a small poster and hand-printed. Before he saw its contents, Parr knew that it was a message from the Crimson Circle.</p>
			<p>“What do you think of this?” asked Jack, looking round as the detective came in. “We found half a dozen of these posters pasted or tacked on to the trees of the drive, and this one was stuck up under my window!”</p>
			<p>The detective read:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Your father’s debt is still unpaid. It will remain unpaid if you persuade your friends Derrick Yale and Parr to cease their activity.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Underneath was written in smaller characters, and evidently added as an afterthought:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>We shall make no further demands upon private individuals.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“So he was bill-posting,” said Parr thoughtfully. “I wondered why he came and left so early.”</p>
			<p>“Did you see him?” asked Jack in surprise.</p>
			<p>“I just glimpsed him. In fact, I knew he would call, though I expected a more startling consequence,” said the detective.</p>
			<p>He sat through breakfast without saying a word, except to answer the questions that Jack put to him, and then only in the briefest fashion, and it was not until they were walking across the meadows that Parr asked:</p>
			<p>“I wonder if he knows you’re fond of Thalia Drummond?”</p>
			<p>Jack went red.</p>
			<p>“Why do you ask that?” he said a little anxiously. “You don’t think they will take their vengeance on Thalia, do you?”</p>
			<p>“If it would serve his purpose, he would wipe out Thalia Drummond like that.” The detective snapped his fingers.</p>
			<p>He put an end to further conversation by stopping and turning about in his tracks.</p>
			<p>“This will do,” he said.</p>
			<p>“I thought you wanted to go to the station gate⁠—the way Marl came to the house that morning?”</p>
			<p>Parr shook his head.</p>
			<p>“No, I wished to be sure how he approached the house. Can you point out the spot where he suddenly became so agitated?”</p>
			<p>“Why, of course,” said Jack readily, but wondering what it was all about. “It was much nearer the house; in fact, I can give you the exact spot, because I particularly remember his stepping aside from the path and ruining a young rose tree on which he put his foot. There is the tree⁠—or one the gardener has put in its place.”</p>
			<p>He pointed, and Parr nodded his large head several times.</p>
			<p>“This is very important,” he said. He walked to where the ruined tree had been. “I knew he was lying,” he said half to himself. “You cannot see the terrace from here at all. Marl told me that he saw your father standing on the terrace at the very moment he had his seizure, and my first impression was that it was the sight of your father which was responsible for his scare.”</p>
			<p>He gave Jack details of the conversation he had had with Felix Marl before his death.</p>
			<p>“I could have corrected that,” said Jack. “My father was in the library all the morning, and he did not come out of the house until we were ascending the steps of the terrace.”</p>
			<p>Parr, notebook in hand, was making a rough sketch. On his left front was the solid block of Sedgwood House, immediately before him were the gardens, enclosed by light iron railings to prevent the cattle straying on to the flower beds, and broken by the gate through which Marl must have passed. On the right was a patch of bushes, in the midst of which showed the gay top of a garden umbrella.</p>
			<p>“Dad was very fond of the shrubbery,” explained Jack. “We get high winds here even on the warmest days, and the shrubbery affords shelter. Dad used to sit there for hours reading.”</p>
			<p>Parr was slowly turning on his heel, taking in every detail of the view. Presently he nodded.</p>
			<p>“I think I have seen all there is to be seen,” he said.</p>
			<p>As they were walking back to the house he reverted to the midnight bill-poster, and to Jack’s surprise:</p>
			<p>“That was the only false move that the Crimson Circle have made, and I think it was very much an afterthought. That was not their original intention, I’ll swear.”</p>
			<p>He sat down on the steps of the terrace and stared out over the landscape. Jack could not but think that a more uninspiring figure than <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr he had never met. His lack of inches, his rotundity, his large placid face, did not somehow fit in with Jack’s conception of a shrewd criminal investigator.</p>
			<p>“I’ve got it,” said Parr at last. “My first idea was right. He was coming down to blackmail you for the money your father did not pay. On his way he conceived this new idea, which is hinted at in the postscript of his message. He has decided upon some big coup, so that the reference to myself and Yale may be genuine; and he really does want us out of the game, though he’d be a fool if he did not know that the likelihood of his wishes being fulfilled in that respect are pretty remote. Let me see the poster again.”</p>
			<p>Jack brought it and the inspector spread it upon the pavement of the terrace.</p>
			<p>“Yes, this has been written in a hurry; probably written in his car, and it is a substitute for the poster he originally intended.” He rubbed his chin impatiently. “Now, what is the new scheme?”</p>
			<p>He was to learn almost immediately, for the butler came hurrying out to say that the telephone bell had been ringing in Jack’s study for five minutes.</p>
			<p>“It is you they want,” said Jack, handing the receiver to the detective.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr took the instrument in his hands, and recognised immediately Colonel Morton’s voice.</p>
			<p>“Come back to London at once, Parr; you are to attend a meeting of the Cabinet this afternoon.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr put down the receiver, and a smile spread over his big face.</p>
			<p>“What is it?” asked Jack.</p>
			<p>“I’m joining the Cabinet,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr, and laughed as Jack had never seen him laugh before.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
