<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXVIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-28" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVIII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">A Shot in the Night</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>The inspector must have been nearly fifty, and he made a rapid calculation as to the age of this wonderful grandmother who took an interest in crime, and kept the house tidy.</p>
			<p>“She must be a wonderful old lady,” he said, “and I suppose she’d even be interested in the Crimson Circle.”</p>
			<p>“Interested!” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr laughed. “If mother was on the track of that gang with the same authority as I have, they would be high and dry in Cannon Street police station tonight. As it is,” he paused, “they are not.”</p>
			<p>All the time they were talking Jack was puzzling his head as to why, in spite of its order, the room gave him an impression of untidiness. But he was not left to his own thoughts for very long, for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr was in an unusually communicative mood. He even went so far as to tell Jack some of the unpleasant things said to him by the Commissioner.</p>
			<p>“Naturally police headquarters are rather rattled by the continuance of these crimes,” he said. “We haven’t had anything like this for fifty years. In fact, I don’t think since the Ripper murders there has been such an orgy of destruction. It may interest you, too, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Beardmore, to know that the Crimson Circle, whoever he is, is the first real organising criminal we have had to deal with for nearly fifty years. Criminal organisations are loose affairs, and as they depend for their safety upon that sense of honour which every thief is supposed to possess, but which I have never met with, the game doesn’t last very long. The Crimson Circle, however, is a man who obviously trusts nobody. He cannot be betrayed because nobody is in a position to betray him. Even the minor members of the gang cannot betray one another, because it is just as clear to me that they do not know one another by name or by sight.”</p>
			<p>He went on to discuss interestingly cases in which he had been concerned, and it was nearly half-past eleven when Jack rose with a further apology.</p>
			<p>“I’ll take you to the front door; your car is here, isn’t it?”</p>
			<p>“No,” said Jack. “I came by taxi.”</p>
			<p>“H’m,” said the inspector. “I thought I saw a car drawn up in front of the door. We are not a motorcar owning neighbourhood; probably it is a doctor’s machine.”</p>
			<p>He opened the door, and, as he had said, a black car was drawn up at the kerb.</p>
			<p>“I seem to have seen that before,” said the inspector, and took a step forward. As he did so a pencil of flame leapt from the dark interior of the car; there was a deafening report, and Inspector Parr fell into Jack’s arms and slid to the ground. A second later and the car was speeding up the street; it showed no light and vanished round the corner as the doors in the street began to open and to let out the alarmed residents.</p>
			<p>A policeman came running along the pavement, and together they lifted the detective and carried him into the dining-room. Happily the aunt had gone to bed, and had apparently heard and noticed nothing.</p>
			<p>Inspector Parr opened his eyes and blinked.</p>
			<p>“That was a nasty one,” he said with a wince of pain. He felt gingerly in his waistcoat and brought out a flat piece of lead. “I’m glad he didn’t use an automatic,” he said, and then, seeing the blank amazement on Jack’s face, he grinned.</p>
			<p>“The Crimson Circle gentleman is only one of three who wear a bulletproof waistcoat,” he said. “I am the second, and⁠—” he paused, “Thalia Drummond is the third, as I happen to know.”</p>
			<p>He did not speak again for some time, and then he said to Jack:</p>
			<p>“Will you telephone to Derrick Yale? I think he is going to be considerably startled.”</p>
			<p>The prophecy understated the case.</p>
			<p>Derrick Yale arrived half an hour after the shooting in such haste that his appearance suggested that he had dressed over his pyjama suit. He listened to Parr’s story, and then:</p>
			<p>“I don’t want to be uncomplimentary, inspector,” he laughed, “but you’re the last person in the world I should have thought they would have wanted to shoot.”</p>
			<p>“Thank you,” said Parr, who was gingerly fixing a lint pad over his bruised chest.</p>
			<p>“I don’t mean that as uncomplimentary; I merely mean that such a definite challenge to the police is the last thing in the world I expected them to deliver.” He frowned heavily. “I don’t understand it,” he said as though speaking to himself. “I wonder why she wanted to know. I’m talking about Thalia Drummond. She asked me this morning what was your address,” he said. “I understand your name is not even in the telephone book or in the local directory.”</p>
			<p>“What did you say?”</p>
			<p>“I gave her some evasive answer, but I’ve just remembered that my private address book is accessible, and she could easily have discovered it without troubling to ask me. I wonder she didn’t.”</p>
			<p>Jack gave a weary sigh.</p>
			<p>“Really, Yale, you’re not suggesting that Miss Drummond fired that shot, are you? Because, if you are, it’s a ridiculous suggestion. Oh, I know what you’re going to say: she’s a bad lot and has been guilty of all sorts of miserable little crimes, but that doesn’t make her a murderess!”</p>
			<p>“You’re quite right,” replied Yale after a pause. “I’m being unjust to the girl, and it doesn’t seem that I’m starting fair if I am sincere in my desire to give her a chance. I wanted to see you tonight, by the way, Parr.” He took from his pocket a card and laid it on the table before the inspector. “How does that strike you for nerve?”</p>
			<p>“When did you get it?”</p>
			<p>“It was waiting in the letter-box for me, but I didn’t see it, curiously enough, until I was rushing out to find a taxi to bring me here. Isn’t it colossal?”</p>
			<p>The card bore a symbol familiar enough to the two men, but at the very sight of that Crimson Circle, Jack shuddered. Within the hoop was written:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>You are serving the losing side. Serve us instead and you shall be rewarded tenfold. Continue your present work, and you die on the fourth of next month.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“That gives you about ten days,” said Parr seriously, and it might have been the pain he had suffered, or excitement, but he seemed suddenly to lose his colour. “Ten days,” he muttered.</p>
			<p>“Of course, I take not the slightest notice of that threat,” said Derrick Yale cheerfully. “I must confess that after my unpleasant experience at the office I almost credit them with supernatural gifts.”</p>
			<p>“Ten days,” repeated the detective. “Have you made any plans? Ordinarily, where would you be on the fourth of next month?”</p>
			<p>“It is curious that you should ask that,” said Yale, “but I had arranged to go down to Deal for some fishing. A friend of mine has lent me a motor-launch, and I thought of spending the night in the Channel; in fact, I had arranged to go on that day.”</p>
			<p>“You can make what arrangements you like, but you are not going alone,” said Parr emphatically. “And now you can all clear out. Thank your lucky stars that my aunt has not wakened, and that mother isn’t here!”</p>
			<p>The last he said was intended for Jack, and Jack smiled understandingly.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
