<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XL: The Escape</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-40" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XL</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Escape</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>The outrage upon Raphael Willings had produced something like a panic in the Cabinet.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr learnt how profound was the concern when he returned to headquarters. And the Prime Minister was justified in his anxiety. The Crimson Circle had not stated when the next blow would fall, or upon whom.</p>
			<p>The inspector was sent for to Downing Street, and was closeted with the Prime Minister for two hours. It was the first personal consultation he had had, and it was followed by a meeting of the inner Cabinet, a fact that was duly recorded in the newspapers.</p>
			<p>It was said, but without authority, that the life of the Prime Minister had been threatened, and this statement was neither denied nor affirmed.</p>
			<p>Derrick Yale, returning to his flat that night, found Inspector Parr waiting on the doormat.</p>
			<p>“Is anything wrong?” he asked quickly.</p>
			<p>“I want your help,” said Parr, and did not speak again until he was sitting in a comfortable chair before the fire in Yale’s sitting room.</p>
			<p>“You know, Yale, that I’ve got to go, and the Prime Minister is considering the advisability of my going a little sooner than I had expected. There has been a Cabinet committee appointed, and they are calling into question the methods which headquarters are employing and I have been asked by the Commissioner to attend an informal meeting at the Prime Minister’s house tomorrow evening.”</p>
			<p>“What is the idea?” asked Yale.</p>
			<p>“I’m to give a sort of lecture,” said Parr gloomily, “and explain to the members of the Cabinet the methods I have employed against the Crimson Circle. You probably know that I have been given unusual powers, and that I have not been asked to tell the Government all I know. I intend doing that on Friday evening, and I want your help.”</p>
			<p>“My dear chap, you have it before you ask it,” said Yale warmly, and Parr went on.</p>
			<p>“There is still a lot about the Crimson Circle that is a mystery to me, but I am piecing it together. At the moment I am under the impression that there is somebody at police headquarters who is working with them.”</p>
			<p>“That is my view, too,” said Yale quickly. “Why do you say that?”</p>
			<p>“Well,” said the slow Parr, “I’ll give you an instance. Young Beardmore had a photograph that he found in his father’s papers and this was posted to me. It arrived all right, with the seal of the envelope intact, but when I opened it, there was a blank card. I have since discovered that he gave that card to Thalia Drummond to post; he swears he stood on the doorstep and watched her slip it into the letter-box on the opposite side of the road. If that is the case, the envelope must have been tampered with after it reached headquarters.”</p>
			<p>“What kind of a photograph?” asked the other curiously.</p>
			<p>“It was either a picture of an execution or the condemned man Lightman, for I think it was taken on the occasion when they tried to execute Lightman and failed. It came to old man Beardmore the day before his death⁠—a great number of things seem to have happened to the victims of the Crimson Circle the day before their death⁠—and was found by Jack and, as I say, sent on⁠—”</p>
			<p>“By Thalia Drummond!” said Yale significantly. “My view is that you can exonerate the people at headquarters. This girl is deeper in the Crimson Circle than you imagine. I searched her house tonight⁠—that is where I’ve been, and this is what I found.”</p>
			<p>He went out into the hall and returned with a brown paper parcel, opened it, and the inspector stared.</p>
			<p>A gauntlet glove and a long bright-bladed knife were exposed when Yale cut the string and stripped away the paper wrapping.</p>
			<p>“This glove is a fellow to that which was found in Froyant’s study. The knife is an exact pair to the other.”</p>
			<p>Parr took up the gauntlet and examined it.</p>
			<p>“Yes, this is the left hand, and the one on Froyant’s desk was the right,” he agreed. “It is a worn motor-glove. Who was the owner? Try your psychometric powers, Yale.”</p>
			<p>“I’ve already tried,” said the other, shaking his head, “but the glove has passed through so many hands that the impressions I receive are very confused. At any rate, this discovery confirms the theory that Thalia Drummond is in the business up to her neck. As to the other matter you were speaking about,” he said, as he wrapped the knife and glove carefully in the paper, “I shall be most happy to assist you.”</p>
			<p>“What I want from you,” said Parr, “is that you shall fill in the spaces which I cannot fill,” he shook his head. “I only wish mother could be there,” he said regretfully.</p>
			<p>“Mother?” said the astonished Yale.</p>
			<p>“My grandmother,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr soberly. “The only detective in England⁠—bar you and I.”</p>
			<p>It was the first time that Derrick Yale ever had reason to suspect that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr possessed a sense of humour.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>It was typical of that period of excitement, when the name of the Crimson Circle was on every tongue, that sensation should follow sensation. But probably no incident created so much excitement as that which, in scrawling headlines, greeted Derrick Yale as, sitting in bed sipping his tea, he read the newspaper the following morning!</p>
			<p>Thalia Drummond had escaped!</p>
			<p>People escape from prison in works of fiction; they have been known to make a temporary getaway from dread Dartmoor, but never before in the history of the prison service had a woman escaped from Holloway. And yet the wardress unlocking the door of Thalia Drummond’s cell in the morning found it empty.</p>
			<p>It took a great deal to shock Derrick Yale, but the news temporarily paralysed him. He read the account of the escape word by word, and in the end he was as mystified as ever.</p>
			<p>But there it was in cold print, officially admitted, and communicated to the early morning press by the Government with unnatural haste.</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p>Owing to the unusual importance of the prisoner, and the character of the offence alleged against her, extraordinary precautions were taken to guard her. The patrol which usually visits the ward in which her cell was situated, was doubled, and instead of hourly, half-hourly visits were paid by the officers on duty. It is not customary to look into every cell on these occasions, but at three o’clock this morning the wardress⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Hardy⁠—looked through the observation hole and saw the prisoner was there. At six o’clock when the cell door was opened, Drummond was missing. The bars of the window were intact, and the door had not been tampered with.</p>
				<p>A search of the prison grounds showed no trace of her footsteps, and it is almost impossible that she could have escaped over the wall. It is equally impossible that she could have left by the ordinary means, since it would have necessitated her passing through six separate doors, none of which had been forced, or through the gatekeeper’s lodge, which is occupied throughout the night.</p>
				<p>This new proof of the Crimson Circle’s omnipotence and extraordinary powers is very disconcerting, coming, as it does, at a moment when the lives of Cabinet Ministers are threatened by this mysterious gang.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Yale glanced at the clock. It was half-past eleven. And then he looked at the newspaper and saw that his servant had brought him an early edition of one of the evening papers. He was out of bed in a second and, not waiting for breakfast, rushed off to headquarters, to find Inspector Parr in a very good humour, considering all the circumstances.</p>
			<p>“But this is incredible, Parr, it is impossible! She must have friends in the prison!”</p>
			<p>“That is my idea entirely,” said Parr. “I told the Commissioner in the identical words that she must have friends in the prison. Otherwise,” he said after a pause, “how did she get out?”</p>
			<p>Yale looked at him suspiciously. It did not seem the moment or the occasion for flippant talk, and Inspector Parr’s tone was undoubtedly flippant.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
