<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXII: A Trip to the Country</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-32" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">A Trip to the Country</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Police headquarters was on its trial. The uncomfortable amount of space which the newspapers were giving to the latest of these tragedies which were associated with the name of Crimson Circle, the questions which were on the paper to be asked in Parliament, no less than the conferences behind closed doors at headquarters, and the aloofness of all who were ordinarily connected with Inspector Parr in his work, were ominous signs which he did not fail to appreciate.</p>
			<p>There was hardly a newspaper which did not publish a very complete list of the outrages for which the Crimson Circle was responsible, and not one which did not mention pointedly the damning fact that from the very beginning of the Circle’s activity, Inspector Parr had had charge of the various cases.</p>
			<p>He asked for, and was granted, leave to make enquiries in France. During his few days’ absence, his superiors arranged for his successor. He had only one friend at headquarters, and that curiously and strangely enough was Colonel Morton, the Commissioner in control of Parr’s department.</p>
			<p>Morton fought his case, but knew that it was a hopeless one from the beginning. In this he had the assistance of Derrick Yale. Yale made an early call at headquarters and gave the fullest particulars with the object of exonerating his official colleague.</p>
			<p>“The mere fact that I was on the spot, and that I had been specially engaged to protect Froyant, must take a lot of responsibility from Parr’s shoulders,” he urged.</p>
			<p>The Commissioner leant back in his chair and folded his arms.</p>
			<p>“I don’t want to hurt your feelings, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Yale,” he said bluntly, “but officially you have no existence, and I am afraid that nothing you will say is going to help <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr. He has had his chance⁠—in fact, he has had several chances, and he has missed them.”</p>
			<p>Just as Yale was going the Commissioner beckoned him to remain.</p>
			<p>“You can throw light upon one subject, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Yale,” he said. “It has reference to the killing of the man who shot James Beardmore: you remember Sibly, the sailor.”</p>
			<p>Yale nodded, and resumed the seat he had vacated.</p>
			<p>“Who was in the cell when you were taking this man’s evidence?”</p>
			<p>“Myself, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr and an official shorthand writer.”</p>
			<p>“Man or woman?” asked the Commissioner.</p>
			<p>“A man. I think he was a member of your staff. And that was all. The jailer came in once or twice; in fact he came in while we were there, and brought the water, which was found afterwards to contain the poison.”</p>
			<p>The Commissioner opened a folder and selected from many documents a sheet of foolscap.</p>
			<p>“Here is the jailer’s statement,” he said. “I’ll save you the preliminaries, but this is what he says,” said the Commissioner; he fixed his glasses and read slowly:</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p>“The prisoner sat on his bed. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr was sitting facing him and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Yale was standing with his back to the cell door, which was open when I went in. I took a tin mug half full of water which I drew from a faucet which had been fixed for the purpose of supplying drinking water. I remember putting the tin down whilst I attended a bell call from another cell. So far as I know it was impossible that this tin could be tampered with, though it is true that the door into the yard was open. When I went into the cell <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr took the tin from my hand, and set it on a ledge near the door and told me not to interrupt them.”</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“You notice that no reference is made to the shorthand-writer. Was he obtained locally, do you think?”</p>
			<p>“I’m almost sure he was from your office.”</p>
			<p>“I must ask Parr about that,” said the Commissioner.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr (who had returned from France) when questioned on the telephone, admitted that the shorthand-writer was a local man whom he had secured by making enquiries in the little town. In the confusion which had followed the discovery that Sibly was dead, he had not thought to enquire about the man’s identity.</p>
			<p>A typewritten transcript of Sibly’s statement had been given to him, and he remembered indistinctly paying the writer for his trouble. That was as far as he could help the Commissioner, whose information on the subject was not greatly increased.</p>
			<p>Derrick Yale waited whilst this telephonic communication was in progress, and when the colonel had finished, he gathered from his dissatisfied expression that Parr’s information was of no particular value.</p>
			<p>“You don’t remember the man yourself?”</p>
			<p>Yale shook his head.</p>
			<p>“His back was to me, most of the time,” he said, “and he sat by the side of Parr.”</p>
			<p>The Commissioner muttered something about gross carelessness, and then:</p>
			<p>“I shouldn’t be surprised if your shorthand-writer was an emissary of the Crimson Circle,” he said. “It was a piece of criminal neglect to have taken a man whose identity cannot be established for such an important piece of work. Yes, Parr has failed.” He sighed. “I am sorry, in many ways. I like Parr. Of course, he’s one of the old-fashioned police officers whom you bright outside men affect to despise, and he hasn’t any extraordinary gifts, although he has been, in his time, a remarkably good officer. But he’ll have to go. That is decided. I may tell you this, because I have already made the same intimation to Parr himself. It is a thousand pities.”</p>
			<p>It was no news to Yale: nor was it news to the youngest officer at police headquarters.</p>
			<p>But the person who seemed least concerned was Inspector Parr himself. He went about his routine work as though unconscious that any extraordinary change in his position was contemplated, and even when he met his successor, who came to look at the office he was shortly to occupy, was geniality itself.</p>
			<p>One afternoon he met Jack Beardmore by accident in the park, and Jack was struck by the stout little man’s good spirits.</p>
			<p>“Well, inspector,” said Jack, “are we any nearer the end?”</p>
			<p>Parr nodded.</p>
			<p>“I think we are,” he said. “The end of me.”</p>
			<p>This was the first definite news Jack had received of the inspector’s retirement.</p>
			<p>“But surely you’re not going? You have all the threads in your hands, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr. They can’t be so foolish as to dispense with you at this very critical moment unless they have given up all hope of capturing the scoundrel.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr thought “they” had given up all hope long ago, but the attitude of headquarters was a subject which he did not care to pursue.</p>
			<p>Jack was going down to his country house. He had not visited the place since his father’s death, and he would not have gone now but the necessity had arisen for revising a number of farm leases, and since the business could not be done in town, and there were other matters which needed local attention, he decided to spend a night in a place which had, in addition to the memory of this tragedy, memories almost as distasteful.</p>
			<p>“Going down into the country are you?” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr thoughtfully. “Alone?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Jack, and then as he guessed the other’s thoughts, he asked eagerly, “You would not care to come down as my guest, would you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr? I should be delighted if you could, but I suppose this Crimson Circle investigation will keep you in town.”</p>
			<p>“I think they’ll get on very well without me,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr grimly. “Yes, I think I should like to come down with you. I haven’t been to the house since your poor father’s death, and I should like to go over the grounds again.”</p>
			<p>He asked for an additional two days’ leave, and headquarters, which would have willingly dispensed with him for the remainder of his lifetime, agreed.</p>
			<p>As Jack was leaving that night the inspector went home, packed a small Gladstone bag, and met him at the station.</p>
			<p>Neither the weather nor the roads were conducive to a long motorcar journey, and on the whole the inspector agreed that travelling by train was more comfortable.</p>
			<p>He had left a little note addressed to Derrick Yale, telling him where he was going, and added at the foot:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>It is possible circumstances may arise which would need my presence in town. Do not hesitate to send for me if this should be the case.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Remembering this postscript, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr’s subsequent conduct was not a little odd.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
