<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXIX: “The Red Circle”</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-29" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIX</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">“The Red Circle”</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>It was Harvey Froyant’s boast that he trusted nobody completely. He trusted the lawyer up to a point, but his known connection with questionable people would have been alone sufficient to prevent Harvey from trusting implicitly to his agent.</p>
			<p>Two nights after the shooting of Inspector Parr the little lawyer called on his employer, and he was all a-quiver with excitement. He had traced one of the new series of banknotes which the Crimson Circle had taken from Brabazon.</p>
			<p>“Now, we’ve got a good line on this, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Froyant, and if we continue in the direction we are going, we can certainly pick up the original changer.”</p>
			<p>But here <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Harvey Froyant was firm. He could not and would not place the case completely in the hands of this man. So far might the knowledgeable firm of Heggitt take him, but he would carry on the rest through another agency. He said so in as many words.</p>
			<p>“I’m sorry you won’t let me go on with it,” said the disappointed Heggitt. “I have undertaken this search personally, and I can assure you that there are only a few steps now between the man we discovered with the money and the man you are looking for.”</p>
			<p>Harvey Froyant knew that as well as the lawyer.</p>
			<p>Jack Beardmore had spoken a great truth when he said that this mean man would never be satisfied until he had recovered the money he had lost. It was a goad and an irritation, a source of thought which kept him awake at night and woke him in the morning with a sense of blank despair.</p>
			<p>And Harvey was well equipped to carry the investigations to their final stage now that he had the ground clear for him. He had derived his fortune from buying and selling land in every country in the world. Beginning with practically no capital, he had, by personal application to his business, built up a seven figure fortune. And this had not been accomplished by sitting in an office and trusting to subordinates. It had involved considerable travel, restless inquiry and relentless probing into the private circumstances of negotiators, a peculiarity he had shared with James Beardmore, though this he did not know.</p>
			<p>He took up his own case with alacrity, and informed neither Yale nor Parr of his intentions.</p>
			<p>As Heggitt had said, it was a fairly simple matter to trace the note, for at least three stages. His investigations brought <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Froyant successively to a money-changer’s in the Strand, a tourist office and finally to a highly respectable bank. And here he was particularly favoured, for it was a branch of one of the banks which conducted his business.</p>
			<p>For three days he pried and questioned, searched books⁠—which he had no right to search⁠—and slowly but surely he came to a conclusion. He was not, however, satisfied to leave the matter with the discovery of the original passer of the note. Not even the bank manager, who gave him facilities for examining private accounts, and was afterwards reprimanded by his superiors for doing so, knew exactly what object he had, or against whom his investigations were directed.</p>
			<p>On the morning of the first day Froyant left hurriedly for France. He spent only two hours in Paris, and the night found him on his way to the south. Toulouse he reached at nine o’clock in the morning; here again luck was with him, for an important official of the city had been an agent of his in a purchase he had made a few years before.</p>
			<p>Monsieur Brassard offered his guest an emphatic welcome, which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Froyant discounted on the ground that his former agent was under the impression that a new deal and a new commission was in prospect. This seemed to be the case, for he was less enthusiastic when he learnt the object of the visit.</p>
			<p>“I do not trouble myself with these matters,” he said, shaking his head, “for although I am a lawyer, my dear <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Froyant, my practice does not touch the criminal court.” He stroked his long beard thoughtfully. “I remember Marl very well indeed⁠—Marl and another man, an Englishman, I think.”</p>
			<p>“A man named Lightman?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, that was the fellow. Good gracious, yes!” He made a grimace of disgust. “Of course, that is common history,” he went on. “They were scoundrels, those men. One shot the cashier and the watchman of the Nimes Bank, and there were two murders here in Toulouse with which their names were associated. I remember their names very well⁠—and the terrible incident!” He shook his head.</p>
			<p>“What terrible incident?” asked <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Froyant curiously.</p>
			<p>“It was when Lightman was led to execution. I think our executioners must have been drunk, for the knife did not work; twice, three times it fell, but only just touched his neck. And when the horrified spectators interfered⁠—you know our French people are very emotional⁠—there would have been a riot if they had not taken the prisoner back to gaol. Yes, the Red Circle escaped the knife.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Froyant, who was sipping a cup of coffee, leapt to his feet, overturning the cup and its contents.</p>
			<p>“The what?” he almost shouted.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brassard looked at him open-mouthed.</p>
			<p>“Why, what is wrong, m’sieur?” he asked, one eye on the damaged carpet.</p>
			<p>“The Red Circle! What do you mean?” demanded Froyant, trembling with excitement.</p>
			<p>“That was Lightman,” nodded Brassard, astonished at the effect his words produced. “It was his public name. But my clerk will know more, for he was interested in the matter, which I was not.”</p>
			<p>He rang the bell, and an elderly Frenchman came in.</p>
			<p>“Do you remember the Red Circle, Jules?”</p>
			<p>The aged Jules nodded.</p>
			<p>“Very well, m’sieur. I was at the execution. What horror!” He raised his two hands in an expressive gesture.</p>
			<p>“Why was he called the Red Circle?” demanded Froyant.</p>
			<p>“Because of a mark.” The man drew his long finger about his neck. “Around his throat, m’sieur, was a red circle; it was the colour of his skin, and it was a legend long before the execution that no knife would ever touch him, for such marks are said to be charmed. I think it was a birthmark, but I know that on the way to the execution I met a great number of people⁠—my friend Thiep, for example⁠—who were sure that the execution would not take place. If they were as sure that the executioner and his assistants would be drunk,” added Jules, “and that they had put up the guillotine in the morning so badly that the knife would not work, I think they would have been more intelligent.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Froyant was now breathing quickly.</p>
			<p>Little by little the truth was being revealed, and now he saw the whole thing clearly.</p>
			<p>“What happened to the Red Circle?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“I do not know,” shrugged Jules. “He was sent to one of the island settlements, but Marl was released because he had given evidence for the Republic. I heard some time ago that Lightman had escaped, but I don’t know how true that is.”</p>
			<p>Lightman had escaped, as Froyant had already guessed. He passed that day in a feverish search of all available documents, in a visit to the Public Prosecutor, and he ended a strenuous twelve hours in the bureau of the prison governor, examining photographs.</p>
			<p>It may be said that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Harvey Froyant went to bed that night in the Hotel Anglaise with a feeling of complete satisfaction, and with the added pleasure that he had succeeded where the cleverest police had failed. The secret of the Crimson Circle was no longer a secret.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
