<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VIII: The Charge</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Charge</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr’s interview with Harvey Froyant was a short one. At the sight of the detective, that thin man blanched. He knew him by sight and had met him in connection with the Beardmore tragedy.</p>
			<p>“Well, well,” he asked tremulously. “What is wrong? Have these infernal people started a new campaign?”</p>
			<p>“Nothing so bad as that, sir,” said Parr. “I came to ask you a few questions. How long have you had Thalia Drummond in your house?”</p>
			<p>“She has been my secretary for three months,” said Froyant suspiciously. “Why?”</p>
			<p>“What wages do you pay her?” asked Parr.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Froyant mentioned a sum grossly inadequate, and even he was apologetic for its inefficiency.</p>
			<p>“I give her her food, you know, and she has evenings off,” he said, feeling that the starvation wage must be justified.</p>
			<p>“Has she been short of money lately?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Froyant stared at him.</p>
			<p>“Why⁠—yes. She asked me if I could advance her five pounds yesterday,” he said. “She said she had a call upon her purse which she could not meet. Of course, I didn’t advance the money. I do not approve of advancing money for work which is not performed,” said Froyant virtuously. “It tends to pauperise⁠—”</p>
			<p>“You have a large number of antiques, I understand, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Froyant, some of them very valuable. Have you missed any lately?”</p>
			<p>Froyant jumped to his feet. The very hint that he might have been robbed was sufficient to set his mind in a panic. Without a word he rushed from the room. He was gone three minutes and when he came back his eyes were almost bulging from his head.</p>
			<p>“My Buddha!” he gasped. “It is worth a hundred pounds. It was there this morning⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Send for Miss Drummond,” said the detective briefly.</p>
			<p>Thalia came, a cool, self-possessed girl, who stood by her employer’s desk, her hands clasped behind her, scarcely looking at the detective.</p>
			<p>The interview was short, and for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Froyant, painful. Upon the girl it had no apparent effect whatever. And yet she must have known, from the steely glare in Froyant’s eyes, that her theft had been detected. For a little time the man found a difficulty in framing a coherent sentence.</p>
			<p>“You⁠—you have stolen something of mine,” he blurted out. His voice was almost a squeak. The accusing hand trembled in the intensity of his emotion. “You⁠—you are a thief!”</p>
			<p>“I asked you for the money,” said the girl coolly. “If you hadn’t been such a wicked old skinflint, you’d have let me have it.”</p>
			<p>“You⁠—you⁠—” spluttered Froyant, and then with a gasp⁠—“I charge her, inspector. I charge her with theft. You shall go to prison for this. Mark my words, young woman. Wait⁠—wait,” he raised his hand. “I will see if anything else is missing.”</p>
			<p>“You can save yourself the trouble,” said the girl, as he was leaving the room. “The Buddha was the only thing I took, and it was an ugly little beast, anyway.”</p>
			<p>“Give me your keys,” stormed the enraged man. “To think that I’ve allowed you to open my business letters!”</p>
			<p>“I’ve opened one which will not be pleasant for you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Froyant,” she said quietly, and then he saw what she was holding in her hand.</p>
			<p>She passed the envelope across to him, and with staring eyes he saw the Crimson Circle, but the words written within the hoop were blurred and indistinct. He dropped the card and collapsed into a chair.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
