<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-35" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXV</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Thalia Lunches with a Cabinet Minister</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>The fourth of the month had passed, and Derrick Yale was still alive. He commented on the fact as he came into the office which he and Inspector Parr jointly occupied.</p>
			<p>“Incidentally,” he said, “I have lost my fishing.”</p>
			<p>Parr grunted.</p>
			<p>“It is better that you lost your fishing than that we lost sight of you,” he said. “I am perfectly convinced that if you had taken that trip, you would never have returned.”</p>
			<p>Yale laughed.</p>
			<p>“You have a tremendous faith in the Crimson Circle, and their ability to keep their promises.”</p>
			<p>“I have⁠—to a point,” said the inspector, without looking up from the letter he was writing.</p>
			<p>“I hear that Brabazon has made a statement to the police,” said Yale, after an interval.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said the inspector. “Not a very informative one, but a statement of sorts. He has admitted that for a long time he was changing the money which the Crimson Circle extracted from their victims, though he was unaware of the fact. He also gives particulars of his joining the Circle, after which, of course, he acted as a conscious agent.”</p>
			<p>“Are you charging him with the murder of Marl?”</p>
			<p>Inspector Parr shook his head.</p>
			<p>“We haven’t sufficient evidence for that,” he said, blotted his letter, folded it and enclosed it in an envelope.</p>
			<p>“What did you discover in France? I have not had an opportunity of talking to you about that,” asked Yale.</p>
			<p>Parr leant back in his chair, felt for his pipe, and lit it before he answered.</p>
			<p>“About as much as poor old Froyant discovered,” he said. “In fact, I followed very closely the same line of investigation that he had. It was mostly and mainly about Marl and his iniquities. You know that he was a member of a criminal gang in France, and that he and his companion, Lightman⁠—I think that was the name⁠—were condemned to death. Lightman should have died, but the executioners bungled the job, and he was sent off to Devil’s Island, or Cayenne, or one of those French settlements, where he died.”</p>
			<p>“He escaped,” said Yale quietly.</p>
			<p>“The devil he did.” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr looked up. “Personally, I wasn’t so interested in Lightman as I was in Marl.”</p>
			<p>“Do you speak French, Parr?” asked Yale suddenly.</p>
			<p>“Fluently,” was the reply, and the inspector looked up. “Why do you ask?”</p>
			<p>“I have no reason, except that I wondered how you pursued your inquiries.”</p>
			<p>“I speak French⁠—very well,” said Parr, and would have changed the subject.</p>
			<p>“And Lightman escaped,” said Yale softly. “I wonder where he is now.”</p>
			<p>“That is a question I have never troubled to ask myself.” There was a note of impatience in the inspector’s voice.</p>
			<p>“You were not the only person interested in Marl, apparently. I saw a note on your desk from young Beardmore, saying that he had discovered some papers relating to the late Felix. His father had also made inquiries about the man. Of course, James Beardmore would. He was a cautious man.”</p>
			<p>He was lunching with the Commissioner, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Parr learnt, and was not at all hurt that he was excluded from the invitation. He was very busy in these days, selecting the men who were to form the bodyguard of the Cabinet, and he could well afford to miss engagements which invariably bored him.</p>
			<p>As it happens, his company would have been a great embarrassment, for Yale had something to communicate to the Commissioner, something which it was not well that Inspector Parr should hear. It was near to the end of the meal that he dropped his bombshell, and it was so effective that the Commissioner fell back in his chair and gasped.</p>
			<p>“Somebody at police headquarters,” he said incredulously. “Why, that is impossible, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Yale.”</p>
			<p>Derrick Yale shook his head.</p>
			<p>“I wouldn’t say anything was impossible, sir,” he said, “but doesn’t it seem to you that all the evidence tends to support that idea? Every effort that we make to bring about the undoing of the Crimson Circle is anticipated. Somebody having access to the cell of Sibly, killed him. Who but a person having authority from headquarters? Take the case of Froyant: there were a number of detectives on duty round and about the house; nobody apparently came in and nobody went out.”</p>
			<p>The Commissioner was calmer now.</p>
			<p>“Let us have this thing clear, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Yale,” he said. “Are you accusing Parr?”</p>
			<p>Derrick Yale laughed and shook his head.</p>
			<p>“Why, of course not,” he said. “I cannot imagine Parr having a single criminal instinct. Only if you will think the matter out,” he leant over the table and lowered his voice, “and will go into every detail and every crime that the Crimson Circle has committed, you cannot fail to be struck by this fact: that, hovering in the background all the time was somebody in authority.”</p>
			<p>“Parr?” said the Commissioner.</p>
			<p>Derrick Yale bit his lower lip thoughtfully.</p>
			<p>“I don’t want to think of Parr,” he said. “I would rather think of him as being victimised by a subordinate he trusts. You quite understand,” he went on quickly, “that I should not hesitate to accuse Parr if my discoveries took me in that direction. I would not even free you, sir, from suspicion, if you gave me cause.”</p>
			<p>The Commissioner looked uncomfortable.</p>
			<p>“I can assure you that I know nothing whatever about the Crimson Circle,” he said gruffly, and realising the absurdity of his protest, laughed.</p>
			<p>“Who is that girl over there?” he pointed to a couple who were dining in a corner of the big restaurant. “She keeps looking across toward you.”</p>
			<p>“That girl,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Derrick Yale carefully, “is a young lady named Thalia Drummond, and her companion, unless I am greatly mistaken, is the Honourable Raphael Willings, a member of the Government and one who has been threatened by the Crimson Circle.”</p>
			<p>“Thalia Drummond?” The Commissioner whistled. “Isn’t she the young person who was in very serious trouble some time ago? She was Froyant’s secretary, was she not?”</p>
			<p>The other nodded.</p>
			<p>“She is an enigma to me,” he said, shaking his head, “and the greatest mystery of all is her nerve. At this precise moment she is supposed to be sitting in my office answering telephone calls and dealing with any correspondence which may arrive.”</p>
			<p>“You employ her, do you?” asked the astonished Commissioner, and then with a little smile, “I agree with you about her nerve, but how does a girl of that class come to be acquainted with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Willings?”</p>
			<p>Here Derrick Yale was not prepared to supply an answer.</p>
			<p>He was still sitting with the Commissioner when he saw the girl rise and, followed by her companion, walk slowly down the room. Her way led her past his table, and she met his enquiring glance with a smile and a little nod, and said something over her shoulder to the middle-aged man who was following her.</p>
			<p>“How is that for nerve?” asked Derrick.</p>
			<p>“I should imagine you’d have something to say to the young lady,” was the Commissioner’s only comment.</p>
			<p>Derrick Yale was very seldom conventional, either in his speech or his behaviour, but for once he found it difficult to deal with a painful situation other than in the time-honoured way.</p>
			<p>The girl had reached the office a few minutes before him, and she was taking off her hat when he came in.</p>
			<p>“One moment, Miss Drummond,” he said. “I have a few words to say to you before you continue your work. Why were you away from the office at lunch time? I particularly asked you to be here.”</p>
			<p>“And <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Willings particularly asked me to go to lunch,” said Thalia with an innocent smile, “and as he is a member of the Government, I am sure you would not have liked me to refuse.”</p>
			<p>“How did you come to know <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Willings?”</p>
			<p>She looked at him up and down with that cool, insolent glance of hers.</p>
			<p>“There are many ways one may meet men,” she said. “One may advertise for them in the matrimonial newspapers, or one may meet them in the park, or one may be introduced to them. I was introduced to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Willings.”</p>
			<p>“When?”</p>
			<p>“This morning,” she said, “at about two o’clock. I sometimes go to dances at Merros Club,” she explained. “It is the relaxation which my youth excuses. That is where we became acquainted.”</p>
			<p>Yale took some money from his pocket and laid it on the desk.</p>
			<p>“There is your week’s wages, Miss Drummond,” he said without heat. “I shall not require your services after this afternoon.”</p>
			<p>She raised her eyebrows.</p>
			<p>“Aren’t you going to reform me?” she asked him so seriously that he was taken aback. Then he laughed.</p>
			<p>“You’re beyond reformation. There are many things I will excuse, and had there been a serious shortage in the petty cash, I could have overlooked that. But I cannot allow you to leave my office when I give you explicit instructions to stay here.”</p>
			<p>She picked up the money and counted it.</p>
			<p>“Exactly the sum,” she mocked. “You must be Scottish, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Yale.”</p>
			<p>“There is only one way that you could be reformed, Thalia Drummond.” His voice was very earnest, and he seemed to experience a difficulty in finding the right words.</p>
			<p>“And what is that, pray?”</p>
			<p>“For a man to marry you. I’m almost inclined to make the experiment.”</p>
			<p>She sat on the edge of the desk and rocked with silent laughter.</p>
			<p>“You are funny,” she said at last, “and now I see that you are a true reformer.” She was solemnity itself now. “Confess, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Yale, that you only look upon me as an experiment, and that you have no more affection for me than I have for that aged and decrepit bluebottle crawling up the wall.”</p>
			<p>“I’m not in love with you, if that is what you mean.”</p>
			<p>“I did mean something of the sort,” she said. “No, on the whole, I think I’ll take my dismissal and my week’s wages, and thank you for giving me the opportunity of meeting and serving such a brilliant genius.”</p>
			<p>He ended the conversation as though he had made some business proposal which had been declined, and said something about giving her a reference, and there the matter ended for him. He went into his office, and did not even do her the honour of slamming the door after him.</p>
			<p>And yet her dismissal was a serious matter for Thalia. It meant one of two things. Either that Derrick Yale seriously suspected her⁠—and that was the gravest possibility to her⁠—or else that her discharge was only a ruse, part of a deeper plan to bring about her undoing.</p>
			<p>On her way home she recalled his reference to Johnson of Mildred Street. There might be something behind that beyond the revelation of the fact that he knew she was associated with the Crimson Circle, and he wanted her to know he knew.</p>
			<p>When she reached her flat there was a letter waiting for her, as there had been on the previous night. The controlling spirit of the Crimson Circle was an assiduous correspondent as far as she was concerned. In the privacy of her own room she tore open the envelope.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>You did well, (the letter ran). You have carried out my instructions to the letter. The introduction to Willings was well managed and, as I promised you, there was no difficulty. I wish you to know this man thoroughly and discover what are his little weaknesses. Particularly do I wish to know his attitude of mind and the real attitude of the Cabinet towards my proposal. The dress you wore at lunch today was not quite good enough. Do not spare expense in the matter of costume. Derrick Yale is dismissing you this afternoon, but that need not trouble you, for there is no further need for you to stay in his office. You are dining tonight with Willings. He is particularly susceptible to feminine charms. If possible, let him invite you to his house. He has a collection of ancient swords of which he is very proud. You will then be able to discover the lay of the house.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>She looked into the envelope. There were two crisp notes for a hundred pounds, and as she put them into her little handbag her face was very grave.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
